I am working on a book about the history of AI and computers. But here's the catch, I want to go all in, all the way, tracing back all the elements of logic, algorithms and all the ideas that led to our current day inventions from early beginnings in a fascinating butterfly-effect type of narrative. I will start from prehistorical times, outlying how tree carvings for marking the roads acted as precursors to truth-bearing statements, then move into antiquity to the first algorithms (used for irrigations) and to the Ancient Greeks Aristotle's and Stoics groundwork for logical systems. Then I will cover interventions nearing our more recent history, both covering practical inventions such as Pascal's calculator, to Leibniz's introduction of boolean algebra. Then cover the invention of electricity, then the telegraph and morse code, showing that binary information can encode arbitrary information. After this starts the chapters of the groundwork of actual computer science, from punchcards to the early programmers, babbage, lovelace, etc. And like this I will trace all the computer system to the early 2000s let's say, in a future chapter I ll cover artificial intelligence itself and how it works. But for now I am focusing on the history of computation. 

# Core Idea

The core idea here is to outline multiple conceptual threads, for example the practical inventions and the abstract ideas and show how they interweave. The book doesn’t need to follow the threads strictly chronologically, rather draw interesting parallels and putting in context how ideas relate to one another, how they influence them or even when there’s no direct connection how interesting it is for a similar drive to be shared across multiple independent thinkers. 

I also want to put into context and draw parallels and explanations of these milestones, inventions and discoveries, to real-life context, the overarching mentality and zeitgeist of the era they appeared in. Maybe motivating factors, details about the lives of people involved, what motivated them. For example, I want to put historical inventions in the perspective of the Middle Ages, Enlightenment Period, Industrial revolution, wars, etc. I want to ground all my explanations into relatable and logical events.

# The conceptual threads of the Story
As said, central in the narrative is building an interwoven sequence of milestones following different threads (that converge gradually to what we now know as computers and digital systems) These threads may be split as practical (inventions with physical implementation), abstract ideas (logic elements, mathematics, theory) or they may be split by connection between the thinkers behind the inventions and discoveries, drawing connections following the influences. For example, greek logic is implemented as logical computing units in computers. Mathematics show up later as the calculus behind AI learning. The drive for practical inventions answering needs of society at the time can also be a sort of thread too. Mechanical calculators, and other devices and contraptions are also interesting. You get the point, everything is connected, but we need to find the optimal sequence for writing our narrative

# Reader Persona
The Reader of the book is supposed to be a person with a medium or high education, who might completely lack technical background - but would share enough curiosity to allow oneself to be captivated by a good story. The reader might have disposed mathematics in high school, yet that;’s just because there was no passion correctly cultivated in there. For the Reader, computers are “rather complicated” - there’s no clear outline of the physical or conceptual components. They is a means of work, entertainment or general activities but there is a wonder about hope things may work (after all they would read this book) However we must be careful in getting into too technical / boring details. The Reader may be allergic to too many digits being laid one next to the other, but that’s ok. It’s the purpose of this book to try to make a story out of all the concepts that otherwise would remain misunderstood for the non-technical Reader. The Reader may also be a technical person after all, but type of audience as well, lacks hearing a good story. Moreover, essential is to build the feeling of multiple concepts being connected, share the wonder that we discover when looking back at the history of our inventions and how they follow such a beautiful interpolation. 

# Style 
Several influences for what style the book should follow: I liked Harari’s “Sapiens” because I think it did the same for history and anthropology that we aim to do for digital systems. Harari took his expertise and managed to find the way to explain it to any regular folk, without background knowledge in his field, why the subject matters and is interesting and relevant to today’s and everyday’s discussions. That’s our goal for this book as well. 
Another great influence is Richard Feynman-style explanations. Ideally, we will find ways in which to explain even stuffier concepts, mathematics and theories with the same ease and practical analogies that professor Feynman achieved. We should never forget to keep a light-hearted mood and explore ideas because it’s fun. Similarly, I also acknowledge Roberty Sapolsky, precisely for the same way in which he turns explanations into little games of deduction. 

As a standpoint, I most closely align with the viewpoint of Sir Roger Penrose. I feel most related to his philosophical stance of deconstructing the “mythical” intelligence os the systems into their components - not to reduce their absolute nonetheless. But as he puts it into “Emperor’s new Clothes" I resonated a lot with his analogy of computers as a collection of mechanically-equivalent levers and weights. 
One key figure that also appears in the book is of course Alan Turing. I draw much ideas for his statements and will discuss his contributions in details, Him being quite rightfully, the grandfather of AI.
